Update README.md (#79)
peppelinux/draft-demarco-oauth-status-assertions: README.md

## Issuance and Presentation of Status Assertions

1) **Generation:** A Credential Issuer generates a Status Assertion that provides a signed proof of the current status of a Credential.
2) **Request and receipt:** The Holder can request a Status Assertion from the Credential Issuer. This is usually done by means of a request containing a JSON Web Token (JWT) or a CBOR Web Token (CWT) that carries a proof of possession of the Credential.
3) **Presentation:** The Holder presents the Credential together with its Status Assertion to the Verifier. This process is similar to Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling in the TLS protocol, where the server presents a time-stamped status token.

## Features

**Data protection:** The procedure ensures that no unnecessary personal data of the Holder or information about the use of the Credential is passed on to the Verifier or other parties. Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the Credential Issuer or other third parties to confirm the status of a Digital Credential.

> **Offline capability:** The ability to check the validity of credentials offline without having to access a central database or online status lists is a key advantage of this approach.

Reviewer: Is the ability to check online status lists a key advantage of this approach?

```

# Objectives and Explanation of OAuth Status Assertions

> Status assertions are used to provide time sensitive claims that impact the validity of digital credentials without the need for a direct request from third parties. They are periodically issued to the holders of the credentials, who can present them to the verifiers together with the corresponding digital credentials.

Reviewer 2: "direct request from third parties" in the first sentence is a bit ambiguous.  Perhaps say instead: "without introducing third parties in the trust framework and changes in the flow of credential issuance and presentation." 

"They are periodically issued to the holders of the credentials" in the second sentence is not correct IMHO as they are issued per request of the Holder. So perhaps rephrase to: "They are issued on request of the credential Holder"

Reviewer 3: Changes made, pls check

> Status Assertions are used to provide evidences about the validity of digital credentials, according to the mechanism where all the information are provided by Wallet and under the sole control of the User. Using the Status Assertions the credential verifiers do not use a direct request to a third party outside of the wallet instance. Status Assertions are periodically issued to the holders of the credentials, who can present them to the verifiers together with the corresponding digital credentials.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Status Assertions are used to provide evidences about the validity of Digital Credentials, according to the mechanism where all the information are provided by Wallet and under the sole control of the User. Using the Status Assertions the Credential Verifiers do not use a direct request to a third party, therefore they do not ask information about a Credential outside of the Wallet instance. Status Assertions are periodically issued to the Holders of the Credentials who can present them to the Verifiers together with the corresponding Digital Credentials.
```

## Key aspects of the concept of OAuth Status Assertions:

> OAuth Status Assertions provide a robust method of verifying the validity of digital credentials without the need for verifiers to access external sources or third parties.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should stick to the terminology: "verify the status of the digital credentials". It is up to the Verifier to determine what valid means in their context.

> OAuth Status Assertions provide a robust method of verifying the validity of digital credentials without the need for verifiers to access external sources or third parties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Status Assertions provide a method of verifying the validity of digital credentials without the need for verifiers to access external sources or third parties outside of the Wallet who presents them.
```

### Purpose and goal: 

> The main goal of OAuth Status Assertions is to **confirm the non-revocation of a digital credential**. This allows verifiers to check the validity of a credential without having to access external systems or databases. This increases privacy, reduces latency and facilitates offline verification.

Reviewer 2: The same comment about the used terminology as above i.e confirm the status of credential.

I would say that this "preserves" privacy instead of "increases". Increase is relative.

Reviewer 3: Done

> The main goal of OAuth Status Assertions is to **confirm the non-revocation of a digital credential**. This allows verifiers to check the validity of a credential without having to access external systems or databases. This increases privacy, reduces latency and facilitates offline verification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main goal of Status Assertions is to **confirm the status of a digital credential**, such as its non-revocation. This allows Verifiers to check the validity of a Credential without having to access external systems or databases. This increases privacy, reduces latency and facilitates offline verification.
```

### Functions and process:

> 1) **Generation:** A credential issuer generates a status assertion that provides a signed confirmation of the current status of a credential.

Reviewer 2: Should the generation not happen after the request? Or it is implementation-dependent.

> 1) **Generation:** A credential issuer generates a status assertion that provides a signed confirmation of the current status of a credential.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1) **Generation:** A Credential Issuer generates a Status Assertion that provides a signed proof of the current status of a Credential.
```

> 1) **Generation:** A credential issuer generates a status assertion that provides a signed confirmation of the current status of a credential.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1) **Generation:** A Credential Issuer generates a Status Assertion that provides a signed confirmation of the current status of a Credential.
```

> # Objectives and Explanation of OAuth Status Assertions
> 
> Status Assertions are used to provide evidences about the validity of Digital Credentials, according to the mechanism where all the information are provided by Wallet and under the sole control of the User. Using the Status Assertions the Credential Verifiers do not use a direct request to a third party, therefore they do not ask information about a Credential outside of the Wallet instance. Status Assertions are periodically issued to the Holders of the Credentials who can present them to the Verifiers together with the corresponding Digital Credentials.
> 
> ## Key aspects of the concept of OAuth Status Assertions:
> Status Assertions provide a method to obtain a proof of validity of digital credentials, such as the non revocation of these, without the need for verifiers to access external sources or third parties outside of the Wallet who presents them.
> 
> ### Purpose and goal: 
> 
> The main goal of Status Assertions is to **confirm the status of a digital credential**, such as its non-revocation. This allows Verifiers to check the validity of a Credential without having to access external systems or databases. This increases privacy, reduces latency and facilitates offline verification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Status Assertions Scopes

Status Assertions are used to provide evidences about the validity of Digital Credentials, such as the non revocation of these, according to the mechanism where all the information are provided by Wallet and under the sole control of the User. Using the Status Assertions the Credential Verifiers do not use a direct request to a third party, therefore they do not ask information about a Credential outside of the Wallet instance. Status Assertions are periodically issued to the Holders of the Credentials who can present them to the Verifiers together with the corresponding Digital Credentials.

## Key aspects of the concept of OAuth Status Assertions:
Status Assertions provide a method to obtain a proof of validity of digital credentials without the need for verifiers to access external sources or third parties outside of the Wallet who presents them.
```

> ### Functions and process:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Issuance and Presentation of Status Assertions
```

> 2) **Request and receipt:** The holder of a credential can request a status assertion from the issuer. This is usually done by means of a request containing a JSON Web Token (JWT) or a CBOR Web Token (CWT) that carries specific information about the credential.
> 3) **Presentation:** The holder presents the credential together with its status assertion to the verifier. This process is similar to Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling in the TLS protocol, where the server presents a time-stamped certificate status token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2) **Request and receipt:** The Holder can request a Status Assertion from the Credential Issuer. This is usually done by means of a request containing a JSON Web Token (JWT) or a CBOR Web Token (CWT) that carries a oproof of possession of the Credential.
3) **Presentation:** The Holder presents the Credential together with its Status Assertion to the Verifier. This process is similar to Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling in the TLS protocol, where the server presents a time-stamped status token.
```

### Conceptual features:

> **Data protection:** The procedure ensures that no unnecessary personal data of the holder or information about the use of the credential is passed on to the verifier or other parties.

Reviewer 2: We should say that NO data is presented to third parties (not only the unnecessary).

> **Data protection:** The procedure ensures that no unnecessary personal data of the holder or information about the use of the credential is passed on to the verifier or other parties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Data protection:** The procedure ensures that no unnecessary personal data of the Holder or information about the use of the Credential is passed on to the Verifier or other parties.
```

**Offline capability:** The ability to check the validity of credentials offline without having to access a central database or online status lists is a key advantage of this approach.

> **Independence**: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the issuer to confirm the validity of a credential, which increases the privacy and security of the process.

Reviewer 2: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the issuer **or other third parties** to confirm the **status** of a credential, which **preservers** the privacy and security of the process.

> **Independence**: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the issuer to confirm the validity of a credential, which increases the privacy and security of the process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Independence**: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the Credential Issuer or other third parties to confirm the status of a Digital Credential, which preservers the privacy and security of the process.
```

> In both secure and privacy-friendly way, OAuth Status Assertions provide an effective way to manage the validity and status of digital credentials.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In both secure and privacy-friendly way, Status Assertions provide an effective way to manage the validity and status of Digital Credentials.
```

## Contributing

> 

Reviewer 2: Overall suggestion is to capitalise Holder, Verifier and Issuer through the text.

Reviewer 3: Done.

```

# Objectives and Explanation of OAuth Status Assertions

> OAuth status assertions are used to check the validity of digital credentials without the need for a direct request to third parties. They are periodically issued to the holders of the credentials, who can present them to the verifiers together with the corresponding digital credentials.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Status assertions are used to provide time sensitive claims that impact the validity of digital credentials without the need for a direct request from third parties. They are periodically issued to the holders of the credentials, who can present them to the verifiers together with the corresponding digital credentials.
```

### Purpose and goal: 

The main goal of OAuth Status Assertions is to **confirm the non-revocation of a digital credential**. This allows verifiers to check the validity of a credential without having to access external systems or databases. This increases privacy, reduces latency and facilitates offline verification.

### Functions and process:

1) **Generation:** A credential issuer generates a status assertion that provides a signed confirmation of the current status of a credential.
2) **Request and receipt:** The holder of a credential can request a status assertion from the issuer. This is usually done by means of a request containing a JSON Web Token (JWT) or a CBOR Web Token (CWT) that carries specific information about the credential.
3) **Presentation:** The holder presents the credential together with its status assertion to the verifier. This process is similar to Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling in the TLS protocol, where the server presents a time-stamped certificate status token.

> OCSP is a protocol used for obtaining the revocation status of an X.509 digital certificate, commonly used in secure network communications to ascertain whether a certificate is still valid or has been revoked. 
> On top OCSP is a more efficient alternative to the traditional method of checking against a Certificate Revocation List (CRL) and is widely used because it can provide real-time status information about a certificate’s validity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Conceptual features:

**Data protection:** The procedure ensures that no unnecessary personal data of the holder or information about the use of the credential is passed on to the verifier or other parties.
**Offline capability:** The ability to check the validity of credentials offline without having to access a central database or online status lists is a key advantage of this approach.

> Independence: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the issuer to confirm the validity of a credential, which increases the privacy and security of the process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Independence**: Verifiers do not need direct interaction with the issuer to confirm the validity of a credential, which increases the privacy and security of the process.
```

> In this way, OAuth Status Assertions provide an effective way to manage the validity and status of digital credentials in a way that is both secure and privacy-friendly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In both secure and privacy-friendly way, OAuth Status Assertions provide an effective way to manage the validity and status of digital credentials.
```
